---
date: November 17, 2019
title: The Adventure Revitalized
time: 5:47 PM
---
Some backstory:

Between the years 2016 and 2018 I developed a very intense yet not very productive case of workaholism that stemmed from the idea that time and effort would inevitably lead to results, given that I had been given a pretty OP character perk that allowed me to just teach myself things. Over this period of time I learned a moderate amount of piano, drums, writing, design, cooking, and other skills.

Eventually this took over my life and I didn't really want to do anything except improve myself and my skills, even though most of the time I would just stress out over not improving fast enough and instead just waste a bunch of time, hence the reason why I haven't actually mastered any one thing in particular. It didn't help that I didn't have many friends and was struggling to be happy, which of course led to me just investing too much emotional energy into my projects. Their expectable lack of popularity and success in my eyes led me to disappointment and frustration, so my aspirations slowly dissipated over time.

It was during the summer of 2018 that I developed the Adventure - a strange fantastical way to view life through the lens of various media tropes. Hard times became character arcs, everyday tasks became side quests, and so on so forth. Looking at life this way was fun and made what would otherwise be mundane and hard to grasp into a rather interesting, well, adventure.

Somewhere along the way the Adventure and my desire to become good at everything became muddled together, and what ended up happening was that I took a decent amount of time away from everything in order to just experience life and college. The Adventure was still active, however, I felt that I was more just along for the ride instead of going out into the wild and looking for goals or purpose.

Anyways, now we're here. I've decided to restart my productive hobbies but maintain a healthy mindset, so this is the Adventure Revitalized. Kind of anticlimactic, I know, because I didn't really explain anything, but whatever. This is where I'll document Phase 2 of the projects and skills and stuff. I don't even know why I wrote this since I don't think I'll show it to anyone LOL (EDIT 12/22/19: just kidding). But at least I'll have a prologue for this document.

- Sam
