---
date: August 2, 2025
title: The Other Way
time: 8:06 PM
---
Why is it that for the past ten years, you have denied yourself the grace and positivity that you so easily afford to others? Is it because you think yourself greater, that you need to be pushed harder because you need to perform better, achieve higher? Because you feel like you can set yourself apart in this way?

You cannot set yourself apart, because you will never truly be better than anyone. You will always be just as important and unimportant as everyone else, no matter how much you achieve, no matter your successes and failures, because that is what it means to be in the body of Christ. Intelligence, emotional intelligence, athleticism, charisma - these are all traits we use to do the will of God, not to seek earthly gain for ourselves and put ourselves above the rest.

<i>"There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man; true nobility is being superior to your former self."</i> - Ernest Hemingway

The closer someone is to you, the more their life interwines with yours, the more your secret and exclusive rules will begin to bleed onto them. You have caused yourself so much suffering, because you think this is the only way. But it isn't. You need to stop focusing on what you want, what this world wants from you, what your parents had once wanted from you, because none of that has made you happy.

You have to let it all go. You have to accept that it doesn't matter if you are or are not able to achieve the things that you have been searching for all this time, be it success, wealth, fame, admiration, achievement, or anything else, because it's not what you were made for. It will not fulfill you, and it will not make you happy.

If not for yourself, do it for the people around you. Don't let your judgment and your negativity begin to hurt more people than it already has. But I hope you consider yourself just as you would anyone else, a child of God, subject to the whims and obstacles of this world, and needing a friend to support and encourage them.

If you want to do God's will, if you want your life to have meaning and purpose, then you must live as Christ did, with empathy, love, and gentleness. Your intelligence is a gift from God - it was never meant to be used to bring you a life that is "better" than others. It is a gift that is not squandered if you do not achieve some sort of earthly achievement or potential, but one that is squandered if you do not use it to bring glory to God and build others up.

It's all about building people up: with love, humility, patience, and kindness. And it starts with you. It starts with loving, forgiving, encouraging, and being patient with yourself. Because that's what Jesus has already done for you, and that's what Jesus wants you to do.
