---
date: August 3, 2025
title: The Empty Courtroom
time: 3:50 PM
---
I believe I felt God's love and peace today. I read a wonderful little book yesterday titled <i>The Freedom of Self-Forgetfulness</i> by Tim Keller, and I truly felt like He was speaking truth to me through it. If I don't feel this tomorrow and in the future for years and years, let this as least be a record that I believe. I believe I have once felt it, and I believe it is giving me the strength to continue.

Of course, I still think of my past mistakes and feel a little bit of regret. I still think of the future and hope there is a happy ending with her in it.

But I hope that I can lean on His understanding, and trust that I'm exactly where I need to be, and she is exactly where she needs to be. And if God does not bring us back together, I hope I can trust that that is for good as well. I hope I can find solace and joy that does not make sense in this world of suffering and misery.

So I want to judge myself no longer. I want to not care about what I think about myself, much less what I think about others. I want to see them as God sees me - as His children, every one of which with whom He is well pleased. I wonder how I can put this into practice. I hope I can put others' needs above my own, and allow the verdict of Jesus' sacrifice to decide my performance, instead of always trying to live up to and judge everyone by my own standards of what is good, what is right, what makes sense. I want to be the speck of dust in the sunbeam, to be free from this self-esteem that I've puffed up for so long. I want to want what God wants, and I don't know how. I don't know how to reduce my ego and my presence and my needs. I don't know how to forget about myself.

Perhaps this too is leaning on my own understanding - thinking that I must find a way that I can digest, that I can understand, that I can measure. Of course, there is no sense in abandoning all rational thought and effort on my part. But maybe when it seems like there is a solid concrete wall in front of me, it is not a good use of my energy to keep pounding away at it. Perhaps I need to allow the God of time, the God of all possibilities, to weather it away slowly. I need to let Him in. I need to let Him work in me, even when I cannot fully understand. Especially when I cannot fully understand.