---
date: July 24, 2025
title: Logic and Understanding
time: 5:51 PM
---
For most of my life I have struggled to coexist or come to terms with that which does not make sense to me. I am a logical person. Things must make logical sense and be optimized for something, otherwise how will things ever get done? How will people ever see eye to eye if there is no objective standard to agree upon, no ground truth for what is productive and efficient and what is not?

This aspect of Christianity was always puzzling to me. Prayer, predestination, suffering, free will - all concepts that were full of logical holes to me. Why pray for things when I may not even be capable of knowing if it was truly good or bad for me? Why ask for things when God knows not only what I want but whether or not it is part of his foreknowledge or grand plan for my life? If His plan for my life depends on my free will and actions, did that mean that it depended on me making correct choices and acting a certain way? People would say that some questions were just impossible to answer, that some things that happened were unexplainable because we were not capable of understanding. Nonsense, I would think. If you could label an entire class of issues as unsolvable, then what would stop people from saying all sorts of outlandish statements that would puzzle even devout believers, let alone the unbelievers that we are all trying to minister to?

Up until very recently, I lived life with much disdain (whether I realized it or not) for these types of things. In my mind all things can be analyzed, and all things can be solved with enough intelligence and creativity. But as I come to terms with my failures and my shortcomings, I realize that there is more to life than logic. Life, especially with the mission as a Christian to steward all people around me, is filled to the brim with things I do not understand. Situations of suffering that I have no possible way of knowing how it feels to go through them unless I experience it firsthand. Emotional dependencies that I may not be able to relate to, but nonetheless are essential for the people that possess them. Not everything is cut and dry like I had once thought it was. Even right now, as I write these words and contemplate the changes I want to make to my character, I am filled with anxiety, dread, and despair, the likes of which I have not even fully begin to comprehend for myself. I know the things I want, and the things I have to do, and yet I can't do them, because I'm not ready. And although this makes sense to me now, it wouldn't have before.

How many other things am I just too naive and narrow-minded to understand? Isn't it better to give everyone the benefit of the doubt, even if you end up being "right" most of the time? How inconsequential is the gain for you to add another check mark to your ego and save a few minutes, compared to the hurt and destruction you are capable of delivering when you are inevitably wrong? Even worse it can be, when you cannot fathom that you are wrong. At least with other vices, you know you are doing something bad, something hurtful. But with pride you have no such clues. You build a tower out of popsicle sticks, one gust of wind away from crashing to the ground, and yet your arrogance convinces you not to stop, that you have made it so high with the way you know how to do things that you will surely make it all the way to Olympus. All you know is popsicle sticks, and at times the entire thing teeters and totters like madness, but then you make it a bit higher, a few feet further, and you forget about the teetering and tottering. The tower works. And so on and so forth, until it all falls to the ground, because the journey was always impossible. At any moment it would have been better to doze the whole thing down and try any other way of doing things. But I couldn't. It was everything to me.

I had firmly believed that if the end goal is good, it matters little what people think or how people feel. I thought that I had gotten to where I was because of my sound logic and my "tough love" for myself. I thought of extremes and hypotheticals as I often do: a drug addict or a morbidly obese person does not need to be coddled and treated with lenience - they need to hear the cold, hard truth, no matter how harsh it is for them. The logic will make them understand. The solution to their problem will make them feel better. But I no longer believe that it is as simple as this. People can only help themselves. They cannot be forced to feel a certain way or see the world the way I see it, and they cannot have their problems solved for them through brute force. They need to feel like they have the strength and support to make it through. As such, my job is not (not always, at least) to attempt to use purely my intellect and skills to help people, but to administer love and gentleness in the process. Love conquers all things - a hard heart, a burned-out soul, a hot temperament, and all the things that I once thought were simply symptoms of that which could be solved with more effort, more knowledge, more critical thinking, and more understanding of the laws of this world.

But the laws of this world do not reign supreme when it comes to matters of the heart. Christ compels us to meet people where they are (as He did), not force them to meet us where we need them, or even where we think they should be. I am trying to make a habit of praying and bringing my requests to God, even though a part of me knows that I may never understand what is actually happening, if anything at all, when I do. I hope to be able to surrender my superiority, my desire to know and analyze and solve and control everything. Not that I am giving up on understanding, but I believe I am starting to realize that I am not designed to understand all things. I have to trust that my faith and my actions mean something to God that I cannot fathom with my earthly mind. And if I can trust that, I hope I can trust that things that do not make sense to me, and things that I do not understand, may mean more than I can ever imagine to others.